Adds anomaly detection FAQ items to the Troubleshooting page (#2714)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/anomaly-detection/ml-ad-troubleshooting.asciidoc

[[ml-ad-troubleshooting]]
= Troubleshooting {ml} {anomaly-detect}
++++
<titleabbrev>Troubleshooting and FAQ</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the information in this section to troubleshoot common problems and find
answers for frequently asked questions.

[discrete]
[[ml-ad-restart-failed-jobs]]
== Restart failed {anomaly-jobs}

include::ml-restart-failed-jobs.asciidoc[]

[discrete]
[[faq-methods]]
== What {ml} methods are used for {anomaly-detect}?

A bespoke ensemble of various models and statistical techniques are used in
{anomaly-detect}.

[discrete]
=== Paper

https://www.ijmlc.org/papers/398-LC018.pdf[Veasey, Thomas & Dodson, Stephen. (2014). Anomaly Detection in Application Performance Monitoring Data. International Journal of Machine Learning and Computing. 4. 120-126. 10.7763/IJMLC.2014.V4.398.]

[discrete]
=== Talks

https://www.elastic.co/elasticon/conf/2018/sf/the-math-behind-elastic-machine-learning[The Math Behind Elastic Machine Learning]
https://www.elastic.co/elasticon/conf/2017/sf/machine-learning-and-statistical-methods-for-time-series-analysis[Machine Learning and Statistical Methods for Time Series Analysis]

> 

Author: The second link gave me a 404, so I didn't add it to the list.

Some scenarios run in seconds, some can take hours. They are split into 3
suites:

* buildly - runs every ~3h
* nightly - runs 1/day
* monster - runs 1/week (takes a couple of days to finish).

Performance metrics are collected from each and every scenario run and they are
persisted in an Elastic Cloud cluster. This information is then used to track
the performance over time, across the different builds, mainly to detect any
regressions in the performance (both result quality and compute time).

On the customer side, the situation is different. There is no conventional way
to monitor the model performance as it's unsupervised. Usually,
operationalization of the model output include one or several of the following
steps:

* Creating alerts for influencers, buckets, or records based on a certain
anomaly score.
* Use the forecasting feature to predict the development of the metric of
interest in the future.
* Use one or a combination of multiple {anomaly-jobs} to identify the
significant anomaly influencers.

[discrete]
[[faq-model-accuracy]]
== How to measure the accuracy of the unsupervised {ml} model?

> As model predictions, 95% confidence intervals, and actual values in
> documents in an index (if you enabled model plot) are available, you can use
> standard measures to assess prediction accuracy, interval calibration and so on.
> Aggregations can be used to compute these statistics. This might be useful if 
> you would like to monitor data drifts; however, there are ways to automatically
> adapt to changing data characteristics.

Reviewer: > 
```suggestion
For each record in a given time series, anomaly detection models provide an anomaly severity score, 95% confidence intervals, and an actual value. This data is stored in an index and can be retrieved using the Get Records API.  With this information, you can use standard measures to assess prediction accuracy, interval calibration, and so on. Elasticsearch aggregations can be used to compute these statistics. 
```

> The purpose of {anomaly-detect} is to achieve the best ranking of periods where
> an anomaly happened. A useful way to evaluate this is to keep track of real
> incidents and see how well they correlate with the predictions of
> {anomaly-detect}. In practice, it is usually unambiguous qualitatively whether
> {anomaly-detect} is working well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of {anomaly-detect} is to achieve the best ranking of periods where
an anomaly happened. A practical way to evaluate this is to keep track of real
incidents and see how well they correlate with the predictions of
{anomaly-detect}. 
```

[discrete]
[[faq-model-drift]]

> == How to know there is no model drift in unsupervised {ml}?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Can the anomaly detection model experience model drift??
```

> The time series modeling works in a continuous learning fashion. Since time
> series can change steadily as well as discontinuously, to get sufficient results
> it might be necessary to further manage the adaptation to changing data
> characteristics. The trade-off between fitting anomalous periods (over-fitting)
> and not learning new normal behavior must also be managed. The following are the
> main approaches that Elastic uses to achieve this:
> 
> * Learning the optimal decay rate based on measuring the bias in the forecast
> and error distribution moments (both the trend and the residual models have an
> online formulation that helps in this task).
> * Allowing continuous small drifts in periodic patterns. It's achieved by
> continuously minimizing the mean prediction error over the last iteration with
> respect to a small bounded time shift.
> * If the predictions are significantly in error over a long period of time, it
> is tested if the time series has undergone a sudden change. Hypothesis testing
> is utilized to check for different types of changes, such as scaling of values,
> shifts in values, and large time shifts in periodic patterns such as daylight
> saving time.
> * Running continuous hypothesis tests on time windows of various lengths to test
> for significant evidence of new or changed periodic patterns, and update the
> model if the null hypothesis of unchanged features is rejected.
> * Accumulating error statistics on calendar days and continually test if
> predictive calendar features must be added to or removed from the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch's anomaly detection model continuously learns and adapts to changes in the time series. These changes can take the form of slow drifts as well as sudden jumps. Therefore, we take great care to manage the adaptation to changing data characteristics. There is always a fine trade-off between fitting anomalous periods (over-fitting) and not learning new normal behavior. The following are the main approaches Elastic uses to manage this trade-off:

* Learning the optimal decay rate based on measuring the bias in the forecast and the moments of the error distribution
and error distribution moments.
* Allowing continuous small drifts in periodic patterns. This is achieved by
continuously minimizing the mean prediction error over the last iteration with respect to a small bounded time shift.
* If the predictions are significantly wrong over a long period of time, the algorithm
 tests whether the time series has undergone a sudden change. Hypothesis Testing
is used to test for different types of changes, such as scaling of values, shifting of values, and large time shifts in periodic patterns such as daylight saving time.
* Running continuous hypothesis tests on time windows of various lengths to test for significant evidence of new or changed periodic patterns, and update the model if the null hypothesis of unchanged features is rejected. 
* Accumulating error statistics on calendar days and continuously test whether predictive calendar features need to be added or removed from the model.
```
